From hanselminutes.com. It's Hanselman a
weekly discussion with web developer
and technologist Scott Hanselman. This
is Lawrence Ryan announcing show number
two 98. Recorded live Thursday,
December 15, 2011. Support for
Hanselman is provided by Telerik
rad controls, the most comprehensive
suite of components for windows
forms and asp.net web applications
online@wwwdottelerik.com. In this episode of
the framework series, Scott talks
with Todd Angland from teller
about the Kendo UI HTML
five framework. Hi, this is
Scott Hanselman. This is another
episode of Hansel minutes, and
we're continuing the framework series
this week. Coincidentally, we've got
Tellerik on. We're going to
be talking about Kendo UI.
We've got Todd Angland from
telework. Of course, if you've
listened to the show before
full disclosure Tellerik is a
sponsor of the show amongst
other sponsors, but we're having
Tellerik on because Todd and
I bumped into each other.
In fact, in Sofia Bulgaria
at a conference we were
speaking at, and it seemed
like a good idea, given
my interest in HTML five,
as well as the framework
series that we have a
chat. So FYI, they are
a sponsor, but this is
a unrelated podcast topic. Todd,
thanks for chatting with me
today. It's a pleasure to
be on. It's really fun
to talk about something fun,
like HTML five and frameworks
today. Yeah, definitely. It's a,
it's interesting because we're seeing
some pretty cool frameworks coming
out from all over the
place from maybe unlikely locations.
People are really embracing HTML
five in a quicker than
I think I've ever seen
anything. Get, get embraced. I'm
looking at your website here.
It's Kendo, K E N
D O U I. And
this is an HTML five
framework that you've got mobile.
You've got tablets. You've got
all the latest standards. Explain
to me what this is.
Sure. And obviously mean like
you said, it's not really
commercial, but just so people
are aware of what we're
doing really represents is looking
at the emerging popularity that
we're both really excited about
around HTML and JavaScript and
the other things that go
with that and recognizing that
today, if a developer is
setting out to build a
professional project, something that kind
of represents that traditional business
app or a bigger project,
a bigger scope, it usually
means that you start out
by looking for a bunch
of little libraries and pulling
them all together to build
your own framework. You may
go find backbone and knock
out. And you're basically just
cobbling together this framework before
you ever get to the
process of actually working on
your project. And what we
said is that, you know,
if you're starting out doing
development, you really should have
a better starting point. Why
can't we bring everything together?
Focus on building A framework
that works together that built
for performance, all these things
that we want. And we
build software and deliver that
to the HTML five and
JavaScript developer. And that's essentially
what Kendo UI is. It's
everything that developer needs in
one place so they can
build on that. They can
version it more easily, maintain
it more easily, learn it
more easily, all those good
things. And today we deliver
it in three parts can
be UI web, which is
the traditional UI stuff. People
are thinking when they think
web software can do a
data vis, which is HTML
five power charts and much
more in the future. And
then can do I mobile,
which is today a preview,
but it's where we're going
to be doing stuff that's
really designed to look native
looks specific to different devices
like iOS or Android or
windows phone and things like
that in the future. So
it's a big surface area,
but we think it's a
really relevant problem to solve.
And as you said, it's
in response directly to the
fact that this is a
really hot area right now
where a lot of software
development is being done. So
let's, let's work our way
from the small stuff up
to the big stuff I'm
looking at the mobile. And
the first thing that I
noticed is that the controls
look like the O S
that they're on. So when
you hit like a can
do UI mobile page, and
there's a demo, you can
go and check out on
the website. It looks like
there are a native iPhone
buttons. The slider looks like
the iPhone, but then I
hit it with my Android
tablet and it actually looked
like Android. And I was
expecting, it would look kind
of like, I can remember
Java like 10 or 15
years ago where it basically
looked like crap everywhere. Right.
Has that changed yet? But
yeah, I mean, it just,
the, the, the buttons look
like weird Java buttons, but
of course we all want
native looking buttons on the
same, you know, on, on,
I don't want to look
like I've gone to a
foreign country just because I
visited a mobile application on
my iPhone. Right. And actually
zeroed in on exactly what
it is that we're trying
to do a little bit
differently than some of the
other things being done today
with HTML five for mobile.
And that is, we know
that there are some great
frameworks out there for doing
mobile development with HTML five
and JavaScript. But a lot
of them either put the
burden on the developers to
make the app look right
on different devices, or they
kind of introduce a new,
you know, non-native but mobile
friendly look and feel. We
recognize that there are a
lot of developers, especially businesses
that they want to build
apps, and they just want
to build it once or
maintain it more or less
once. And generally have a
work everywhere and look right
everywhere. And that look right.
Part is so important to
user adoption, because if it
looks like iOS, or it
looks like Java from another
planet on your Android, that's
not going to be well
adopted. And people are more
likely to reject or not
use that app. So what
can you, I, mobile does
uniquely is that it automatically
adapts the layout and the
presentation of your application based
on the device it's running
on. And today, obviously for
our, our initial focus, we're
looking at primarily iOS and
Android and phones and tablets
within those spaces, but it's
a vision that we'll continue
to expand on so that
you just worry about your
app, the content, the stuff
that actually matters to your
business, and we'll handle the
nuances of the different layout,
conventions and seeming that is
native, like for the different
devices that be say as
our initial vision. We certainly
think that as we get
more feedback from the community
where things that our people
are having a lot of
trouble with, we'll expand on
that. But it's an important
part of getting your application
to look right with HTML
five and JavaScript, does it
look right? And that's what
we're looking at here today.
No, someone might look at
this though and say, I
thought that HTML five on
a mobile device was a
solved problem in that jQuery
mobile was the answer. What
is it? It is, is
it what's the word? I'm
not saying that jQuery mobile
is the only answer as
there's, you know, there's broad
core and there's dozens of
different other attempts at getting
a cohesive, complete web library
of controls and, and layouts.
But is it not too
late, but to, to come
out with something like this?
Oh, no, definitely not. I
mean, we're talking about too
late. I think we're still
at the beginning ends of
how do we get this
right for mobile devices in
particular? And we think jQuery
mobile jQuery UI mobile is,
is good. I actually like
it a lot. And we
think a lot of the
things that they're doing there
are really nice, but we
have a little bit different
focus and a little different
scope than what's happening with
jQuery. Mobile jQuery. Mobile is
one of those frameworks that
does use that kind of
third approach, where rather than
trying to optimize the UI
to look native, where it
runs it more or less
adopts a, a look and
feel of its own, that
looks the same everywhere you
run it. So where ours
looks different, where you run
it native to the device
that looks the same everywhere
you run it. It's just
a little bit different philosophy,
but there are a lot
of philosophies in the two
frameworks that are very similar.
The idea of doing your,
your design, your layout through
HTML five convention. So use
data attributes to really communicate
what various HTML on the
page should do when it's
rendered on a mobile device.
And there are things that
would be very familiar to
a developer coming from jQuery
mobile, to working with Kendo,
UI mobile. In that sense,
we think that there's a
lot of good overlap, but
ultimately what we're looking to
do is again, pull all
the pieces together. So Kendall
UI mobile will build on
the parts of Kendall, UI,
web, and core, like the
JavaScript data source and our
validation framework and globalization, all
the pieces come with it.
So you have more than
just the UI widgets. I
mean, UI is what you
see, but there's a lot
more going on under the
covers that we think solve
more of the problems involved
with building complete application, not
just the UI of an
application, Right? Indeed. And it
looks like you you've built
on the jQuery core. So
you're, it, it feels like
a jQuery UI library. It
uses the selector syntax that
we're familiar with. Right? If
I, if I'm, if I'm
a lover of jQuery, this
won't feel unfamiliar, Right? In
fact, we're levers of jQuery
as well. So the only
external dependency in Kendo UI
across the board is jQuery.
And we wanted to do
that because we wanted the
API to be familiar. We
liked Jacory a lot and
allows us to do some
pretty cool things. So if
you are a fan of
jQuery and this is kind
of what separates again, Ken
DUI from, from the other
things that are out there,
even beyond the jQuery UI
and jQuery mobiles, things that
are built on other non
jQuery libraries by, by using
jQuery, the Kendo UI stuff
is very familiar. You do
get a lot of these
things that you can just
pretty much figure out how
to use if you know
how to use jQuery selectors.
So it's a very familiar
thing for J crew developers.
And that was by, by
intent for sure. One of
the things that kind of
blows my mind a little
bit is how big this
is. I mean, I saw
the, I heard about this
and we talked about it
a couple months ago when
we saw each other and
you were like, yeah, you
should really check this out.
And you know, and I
think you're, you're the same
way people see you and
they go, Hey, you should
check this out, but it's
just, there's a lot here.
Like it's big, it's like
disturbingly, huge. You have not
five controls, but like everything
you've got grids and, and,
and tab strips and all
this kind of goes on
and on and on and
on and on. Is this
a, how are you doing
this? Are you doing this
with a whole lot of
contributors or they're monkeys or
robots? I mean, how many
people are doing this, this
work Advanced Bulgarian robots that
we pound on keyboards and
through a randomness filter, we
get the tools we want
Shine you on. But I'm
just saying that it is
much bigger than I thought
it would be. Sure. And
the result of that is
really born out of just
actually a lot more work
than, than it might seem.
What goes into Jake or
into a Kendall UI in
this case is really the
experience. We built that for
about a decade of building
professional tools that primarily deal
with HTML and JavaScript a
teller cause the company got
it start creating web forms,
controls, which a lot of
people know teller for the
ace.net web forms. Controls is
the end of the day
while there is a lot
of dotnet involved there. And
a lot of the stuff
you do to make the
server control part of that
work, it's ultimately spitting out
HTML and JavaScript and CSS
that has to work across
all browsers. So we've, we
started working with the idea
of how do you build
professional HTML and JavaScript, you
know, a decade ago when
everybody else was just focused
on the.net and server control
parts of this. And over
those years, we've learned a
lot. And while we learn
a lot of lessons, the
reality is that once you
ship something, you can't really
go back and reboot or
restart and do it in
a different or better way
because you've got to support
what's out there. So we
have the Ajax controls and
then we introduced the ac.net
MVC extensions about two or
three years ago around the
time that NBC itself came
out. And that was one
of our chances to kind
of reboot with all the
lessons we've learned up to
that point. And we built
the extensions natively for eight
son at NBC. Most of
it was happening there. It
was already beginning to happen,
client side, we were using
jQuery. Most of what the
NBC server extensions were doing
was outputting the necessary HTML
that would then get initialized
by our client side code.
So when it came time
to work on Kendall UI,
where we really were saying,
let's cut, let's cut the
tie to the server. Let's
make a framework that is
all client side, JavaScript, HTML
five, and you can bring
whatever server framework you want
to the party. If it's
a stunted NBC, if it's
PHP, whatever it is, you
can use Kendo UI. We
were able to take a
lot of that work we'd
already done for things like
AC on net, NBC, and
then roll into a good
starting point for what we
did with Kendo UI. And
they're not identical. There was
obviously a lot of changes.
We had one more chance
again, to take lessons we've
learned and do things even
better than what we rebooted
on on NBC. And that's
how we were able to
start so quickly. And then
on top of that tender
UI has been in development
for about 18 months. And
we've got a professional team
of guys, really senior guys.
I think it's roughly eight
or 10 engineers working on
this. And they've had 18
months to really put together
some impressive stuff. And they'll
only keep doing more of
that as we hadn't future.
So it's just on the
back of a lot of
hard work, no monkeys, no
robots. And we hope to
keep doing more of it
in the future. I see.
So that's good to know.
So this is 18 months
of work. Cause sometimes projects
come out and they come
out with a slick looking
website, some cool demos. And
you kind of wonder, how
did they bust this out
in a couple of weeks?
Or we know how did
this happen? This sounds like
this has been not just
18 months, but also the,
you know, like you said,
bringing in intellectual property and
stuff that you were doing
on NBC. When I remember
playing with the Telarc NBC
stuff, like I said, three
years ago, there's a lot
of stuff underneath this. We
learned a lot of the
important lessons about what to
do and what not to
do in each of those
iterations. And NBC was, was
a good one because it
got us very close to
where we wanted to be
with Kendo UI. So, you
know, one of the biggest
things people reference, obviously when
they start working with JavaScript,
this is a grid. I
mean, grids are kind of
ubiquitous, maybe more so than
they should be, but they
are what they are in
business software and do a
grid client side with JavaScript
has all kinds of different
problems, especially when you want
to do occasional thinking back
to the server or you
need to do server-side data
operations. And we were able
to learn a lot about
the kinds of things you
need to do to do
that effectively when there's no
kind of prescribed server page
life cycle, like we used
to do with the h.net
web forms days. So it
gave us a lot of
the kind of headstart we
needed to be able to
deliver a really powerful grid.
And then a lot of
the other, I call them
simpler just because relative to
a grid, they are things
like menus and panel bars
and all these other kinds
of things, but there's still
a lot of work in
those to make sure that
they work the way you
expect them to across all
browsers and really all the
way back to . And
that was one of the
big things we decided during
the process of building this
were, we had to decide
how far back do we
need to keep supporting old
browsers and grants, some surveys.
We talked to the community
and got some really interesting
feedback. And we ultimately decided
after the first beta, that
would be kind of
our backstop browser for, for
Kendo UI. When we first
launched, we actually had built
in support for , but
we had so much feedback
that people preferred to not
have those kind of long
living hacks and CSS things
be part of the framework
that we decided to kind
of move that bar up
the . So it ultimately
means that if you work
with Kendo UI, if you've
got a latest and greatest
HTML five browser, you can
get a little bit of
extra richness and things like
the upload control. But if
you've got , you're still
gonna get a functional experience.
That pretty much looks the
same as any other. Yeah.
Yeah. That's a good that
you did that. It's a
tough, I mean, it's a
tough decision corporate people, but
at the same time, it's
the right decision. There's no
reason to be supporting a
browser that is that old.
Yeah, it's a tough one.
And there was mentioning feedback
from the community when we
ran the surveys and ask
people to share their opinion.
And we had a handful
and I'd say like, literally
I could count them on
one hand, three or four
people that, that really needed
ICIC support, but majority were
really ready for Isaac support
to be cut. They were
already on things like .
And we had a lot
of people at the end
of it kind of clamoring
to cut  and let's
just kind of get to
the baseline and, and work
from there. But, and we
still recognize there's a lot
of  out there, a
lot of IEA, especially. So,
you know, we're going to
do our best to make
sure we support as many
of the relevant browsers that
are out there today, but
the pace browsers are changing.
We certainly hope being advocates
of HTML five in general,
that more and more people
can upgrade and progress along.
The whole industry can do
things faster without continuing to
need all this legacy support.
Switching to the source a
little bit. I, I was
chatting last week show with
who has, it was
a guy from dev express
who has an, an open
source project called expand that
extends some of the things
that dev express does. So
not, not just Tellerik is
moving into open source. Really.
Every component vendor has a
commercial arm of the things
that they want to get
paid for, but then they
have an open source arm.
Kendo UI is, is open
source or it's dual license.
What is, what is the
how's that set up? Yeah,
let's do a license. So
kinda UI much like the
telec extensions for H on
NBC, where before it is
a dual licensed library, which
basically means that it's available
under two different licenses, depending
on the, the requirements of
your projects. So there's an
open source license, which is
GPL V3. And then there's
the commercial license, which is
the more traditional you pay
us money, you get support,
you get hot six updates
and you get the things
that basically put food on
our table at the end
of the day. So we
can keep coming to work
in, in building these tools.
And the, the decision ultimately
comes down to what is
the compatibility of your project?
If your project is GPL
compatible, then there's an open
source license there. And we
really were introduced the open
source license, especially when working
with HTML and JavaScript, because
there's so much cool stuff
happening in the open source
space or this field through
the kind of pragmatic idealism
that has been espoused around
the GPL. You know, we
want to support people that
are involved in open source,
but if you're involved in
commercial projects, obviously we are
involved in commercial software as
well. So we want to
make sure we can pay
the bills naturally why we
have to dual licensing. We
really love being done in
the open space. We want
to support it. We wanna
put the code out there,
but we also want to
make sure that we can
all work together continuing to
be professional developers just means
we get paid for our
development into the future. Why
GPL and not something more,
you know, MIT or be,
you know, BST or patchy,
something a little lighter, a
little less frightening to commercial
vendors. Sure. Yeah. I think
there's no question that, you
know, you could probably do
and you probably have done
many shows over the differences
in the open source licenses
and the chaos that comes
from trying to sort through
all that. And we spent
a lot of time internally,
probably months trying to really
determine what is the best
way to do a dual
licensed product like this. And
we talk about things like
MIT and BSD and the
copy free licenses as they're
often called and obviously GPL.
One of its hallmarks is
that it's a copy of
left license as opposed to
copy free, which is what
tends to introduce a lot
of the fear of people
that don't fully understand it.
And the reason we went
that route is because PPL
in this case really embraces
what our intent is with
having an open source license
copy free is, is okay
for some projects where the
main intent is primarily to
put it out there and
then just kind of turn
it loose and let the
world do what they want
to do with it. And
our intent is more about
supporting open source projects with
the products that we've created.
So, you know, we want
to support open source projects
that are trying to create
other new open source things
that are in benefiting software
developers in general, benefiting the
world in general, but it's
not really our intent to
put our effort out there
and then compete against it
if you understand in that
regard. So we felt GPL
best married what our objective
was with the open source
licenses that are out there
that are well-defined that corporations
do have an understanding. We
don't want to go create
some new license. And so
it just ended up that
GPL B3 was most compatible
with our goals for open
source and the other licenses
are great and they're good
for different things. It just
didn't make sense for our
pro Yeah, that's, that's an
interesting thing. I'm, I'm, I'm
not typically a fan of
GPL, but at the same
time, your point is that
GPL is in a truly
open source by using the
kind of the Stallman term
open source project. That's that's
supportive of GPL then Hey,
great. Use the product, no
problem, but if you want,
but it's scary enough that
it encourages commercial commercial use
at the same time, in
the sense of like by
a reasonably priced commercial, you
a commercial license, and you
don't have to worry about
it. And if you really,
really want to go all
open source, that's available too.
If it was something like
a patchy or MSPL, then
there's no reason for someone
to pay, Right. You know,
in certain companies are set
up in different ways. And
I've tried to share this
with others in the past,
you know, a company that,
that creates something that, you
know, has professional teams, the
people involved in creating a
product and then makes it
available under something like MIT
or one of the copy
free licenses. It's traditionally more
set up to make their
money on doing things like
consulting or training services. They're,
they're really ultimately developers that
are in business being professional
trainers or profess professional consultants.
And tell our cause is
just as a company configured
to be a professional software
developer, we are good at
creating and supporting software. And
so to remain being good
at that, that's kind of
what our whole, our whole
processes is built around. And
so we have the, we
don't primarily operate off selling
support or selling consulting. So
we, we sell our tools
and in that regard, that's
where GPL and the commercial
license most aligned with. Not
only just how we want
to put the software out
there, but also just how
we're structured to operate, not
to be completely Frank. I'd
love if can, can do
you, I could be an
every project out there and
I really would, but at
the end of the day,
the reality is it is
not the most compatible with
copy free projects. You know,
if you're doing MIT copy
free project. Well, I love
that. And I really admire
those kind of work being
done there, but unfortunately just
doesn't really marry well with
the licensing we have with
Kendo UI. Right. Right. And
sometimes Microsoft gets criticized for
doing what N w what
people say is not open
source, but rather source opened.
We'll, we'll say that, Hey,
look, this is open source,
but it really it's that
the source is available and
you can fork it, but
we won't take take backs.
And that seemed to be
kind of an ongoing issue
with commercial companies. Do you,
do you have any intent
to do, to do takebacks
at this point? Or is
that still something that's being
worked on? Yeah, it is
really a work in progress,
and it's not something that
we're actively against by any
stretch. Anytime you start dealing
with any of this stuff,
I'm sure it's only magnified
when you talk about a
company like Microsoft, the lawyers
get involved, right. And that's
the big question of, you
know, when you take these
contributions and then you've got
the liability attached to Microsoft
who has money to be
sued. If something comes up,
you know, that's where the
things get hairy. But for
us, we would like to
enable people to contribute. And
we've talked about different ways
to do that. We haven't
established a way to do
it here at the initial
launch. And part of that
was just from some of
the experience we had with
our last open source offering
with, with MVC, we put
the teller extensions face done
at NBC out under a
dual license as well. And
we first launched that we
did work with the community
to kind of embrace the
idea of accepting contributions and,
you know, kind of feel
out what the interest was
there. And, and there just
was very little, and, you
know, you could associate that
with the GPL license and,
you know, not being MIT
and other things. But I
think the reality is even
when you look at big
projects, the number of people
that actually contribute to those
projects tend to be a
pretty small core group of
passionate people. And when you
have a product that's being
evolved by a professional team,
you know, often there's a
little bit less need for
somebody in the community to
get really passionate about it
because the product team is
full time focusing on improving
that product. And in the
case, something that came to
UI, they're very likely going
to ship the improvements that
you want in the next
release, which for us three
releases per year know, four
months, and you're going to
have those features in the
product. So, you know, I
think there's a set of
circumstances that come together around
the software we ship, we
update it very frequently. We've
got professional people looking at
it all the time. And
that tends to, I think,
discourage people from getting really
passionate about creating those contributions,
but to your core question,
yeah. We'd like to enable
it to the GPL version
of Kendo UI. And I
think we're going to be
continuing to look at that.
And if we can create
a process, if we can
find the interests, we absolutely
do want to enable people
to get involved with Kendra
UI as much as they
want to. Now it's split
up into three pieces here.
There's web data, visualization and
mobile. And while mobile is
the one that's kind of
a exciting and sexy. And
I must say that, I
think that the mobile demo
is pretty amazing because it's
got this, it's cool. You're
looking at it under your
desktop. And then this hand
comes up, this like perfectly
photographed hand holding the device
you want, and then you
pick the mobile device and
it comes up with a
new mobile device. It's a
pretty cool demo. You should
check it out, but you've
got the mobile stuff. But
also web and data is
when I did the data
vis or data visualization when
I kept right. Clicking on
the charts. Cause I didn't,
I thought they were flash,
Right? Yeah. Those are some,
some cool things. And I
think David today is sort
of a, a footprint of
where we want to go.
It certainly doesn't represent where
we, we think the end
goal is it's today. It's
primarily some, some chart types
built on each email, five
things like pie charts and
bar charts, but I've already
started to introduce them. The
rich things you can do
with HTML five, like animations
that when the chart loads,
it's not just a static
image, which could be mistaken
for an image it's very
clearly dynamic and a gate
engaging. It's something your users
can, can look at and,
and really digest the data
in interesting ways. And so
it's all show five. It
is no, there are no
plugins involved here. In fact,
under the covers, we're using
SVG and VML so that
we can deliver a very
broad browser support. And, you
know, the, the reason we
went that route of course
is because we want it
to work everywhere. And that's
really part of the, the
idea of HTML five is
I can create this software
with data visualization and will
work just as well on
my desktop browser, as it
does on my iPad, where
clearly there are no plugins
allowed and that extends to
Android and other things obviously
in the future. So this
is the idea with database,
for Kendo. UI is delivering
that same kind of richness
you do traditionally associate with
plugins, but delivering it in
a way that can be
used on tablets, devices, desktops
like, Yeah, I think that
this is a good opportunity
looking at frameworks. Like this
is a good opportunity for
people who maybe have been
thinking about HTML five, but
haven't actually gotten around to
doing it, to really understand
what's possible. I mean, even
myself and I'm, I feel
like I'm pretty steeped in,
in HTML five lately. We've
been just, we eat, sleep,
drink it. You know, I'm
still consistently impressed with the
stuff. And I'm always, I
mean, I can even tell
you guys at Microsoft are
always, you know, right-click is
that, Oh, Oh, they, Oh,
wow. They did do that.
You know what I mean?
That's a, it's funny. I
was talking to Chris cells.
I think you actually just
hired Chris cells recently to
come work at. I tell
her how I was talking
to him last night. And
he said, you know, HTML
five is a computer. It
confusing and complex mess, but
it's an extremely capable, confusing,
and complex mess. And I
think that was, Chris's very
wise way of saying definitely
don't count HTML five out.
You can do some crazy
stuff with it. Yeah, No,
you opened up when we
talked today about, you know,
how, how unusually fast HDL
five is being adopted and
how fast it's evolving. And
whenever I talk to you
about that and you know,
why is that happening? You
know, I just list the
name of companies that are
more or less behind and
endorsing and embracing the HTML
five, but Apple, Google, Microsoft,
Adobe. I'm probably leaving somebody
out here. Amazon is another
one. I mean, these are
tech vendors, major tech vendors
that you don't usually list
as being on the same
page. They're usually in some
way or another working against
each other. And here you've
got them all essentially working
in agreement, not necessarily explicitly,
but certainly implicitly around the
same. As you said, UI
layer, HTML five and CSS.
And that's pretty remarkable. So,
you know, whether the improvements
come from, from Microsoft or
they come from Google or
whoever, there's a huge amount
of investment from very big
players in this space around
the same core technologies, which
I think is what is
helping really accelerate that evolution
of the tooling, certainly of
the browsers, the runtimes as
they are. And that's why
it's exciting to be part
of it. It's definitely in
its early days and there's
more and more people get
focused on it. I think
the whole space is gonna
become a lot richer. Definitely,
definitely. Interestingly, I was looking
at, where do I see?
Where do I get the
code? Yeah. So for Kennedy
UI, I have to do,
I have to make an
account to get that, or
is this hosted like a
GitHub or somewhere I can
find the source I had
to download the source today.
You just have to log
in to Ken DUI website.
And we've got a simple
package there that includes all
the examples, all the source
code and everything. And, you
know, that's, that was another
process we went through early
on. You know, what, where
and how did you get
these things? We actually do
develop the Alexander UI on
GitHub. So our dev team
actually uses get hub itself
for all of its work
on the Kendo UI product.
But there are just certain
complexities we're still working through
to how do we expose
that more directly, but for
today, if you want the
source simply log in Kendo,
ui.com. If you don't have
an account, click needs you
to create one and you
can download the whole source.
And I know some people
get frustrated with the registration
and log in to download
things, but you know, to,
to us, to the people
we want to talk to
professional software developers, you know,
all we're asking is please
trade, letting us know who
you are with letting us
give you everything we've ever
done. And we think it's
a pretty simple and fair
trade. And if you can
do that, then we hope
we can help you be
more productive as you develop
software. I assume you're not
going to spam them. You
just want to understand what
they need and stuff like
that. Right? Right. Absolutely. I
mean, we're developers do, we're
not in the business of
spamming. We just want to
make sure that, you know,
we're talking to professional people
and I think professional people
generally understand that the fair
trade in that information for
software tools. So at the
end of the day, we're
trying to make the best
tools we can and make
the best stuff out there
for HTML, JavaScript developers. And
to do that, we just
need to understand, you know,
who's using it, how many
people are using it, all
these various things. And by
having people log in to
download, we're able to understand,
okay, there is this absolute
number of people working with
it, as opposed to there's
this one guy who's downloaded
it 10,000 times in his
basement and that skews, excuse
some of the numbers. One
of the things that we're
always thinking at Microsoft and
the web platform team that
I work on, and I
was actually up in Seattle
yesterday, thinking about this was
that, what does a, I
can do UI or a
third party commercial vendor library
that's built entirely on JavaScript
look like in a, in
an asp.net world or in
a, you know, whatever your
web framework of choices like
have widgets moved completely from
the surface side to the
client side. And that's the
way, the way that things
are going to be would,
would someone ever want to
still have a visual designer
and drag data grids and
calendars around except rather than
making surface side code, they
would create, for example, Kendall
UI web stuff. I mean,
as you guys dip, dip
your toes into this client
side world, while you are
traditionally a big component vendor,
do you think about those
same kinds of issues and
you have any thoughts about
where you're going to go
with it? Yeah. I mean,
there's a lot of platform
guidance that, that, especially in
the Microsoft space developers really
need to understand because when
you're developing in the Microsoft
stack in particular, there are
a lot of different options.
Whether you're talking MVC and
web forms is different varieties
based on net or Silverlight
WPS if you're moving to
XAML. And I think if
you were to look at
web development in general, the
trend has been over the
last several years towards increasingly
client side processing. And that's
not only what we saw
through the increasing adoption of
JavaScript to do more and
more of an applications front
end processing. But we also
saw that with Silverlight whatever
else it may be. Silverlight
a shift to putting more
of the execution of.net code
and processing onto the client
and having this kind of
lightweight communication layer back to
the server for persistence and
workflow and those kinds of
things. So I think that
the trend is absolutely towards
moving things into the client
because clients are powerful. Clients
can do more. The more
you can do in the
client, the less roundtrip latency
you introduce into applications, which
with the explosion of mobile
and mobile bandwidth, that's a
big problem. Again, you know,
if you have something as
simple as validation and you
require, require a server round
trip to really apply that
validation consistently that's standard, it's
a huge amount of lag
in roundtrip time into your
mobile app and probably destroy
the experience. So from simple
things like that to more
complex things that we can
now do with JavaScript in
the UI, it's all about
just improving the end user
experience. And I think it's
a trend that will continue.
So if you're a server
developer, if you're working@hp.net web
forms, let's say, I don't
think that this is something
you have to view as
a threat. And I think
that's the one nice thing
about HTML five in general,
it's all backwards compatible. You
can easily use it side
by side with anything you're
doing today with HTML. And
we tossed around the formational
five very freely, but clearly
it's just HTML four plus
new stuff, and you can
easily use it side by
side. And a lot of
the server control vendors tell
her as well as clearly
being part of this group
are already baking in HTML
five in different ways into
our server controls. So if
you use the teller extensions,
racy on net, NBC, and
you don't like HTML and
JavaScript, you're very likely already
using DCSS three and HTML
five that we're rendering for
you, same for web forms
and Ajax. So some of
this will just start to
transparently happen for the server
developer. They'll use their abstractions,
they'll use server controls, and
those abstractions will render the
metal technologies, HTML, CSS, and
JavaScript. And they'll sort of
rise with the tide. Their
controls will take them into
the future, or they can
start mixing some of this
stuff side by side. If
they have some really complex
workflows that are server driven
and it would just be
too hard to refactor into
client code. Those can continue
to be server driven, but
maybe they have some simpler
scenarios in their applications, which
could cut out some of
that server round tripping some
of that page post backing,
and they could do it
with simple web services and
client side UI, something like
Kendo UI allows you to
come in, introduce that client
side UI that can render
an update on the client
and give you the power.
You need to have that
without all the traditional post
backs that you require with
server controls. So I think
the model that is the
future in many ways, but
is not a threat to
people that are comfortable and
familiar with server side development.
It's easy to add on
and it's easy to use
in a compatible way. Very
cool. Well, people can check
this out at Tendo, K
E N D O U
i.com. I'll put links up
on the show notes and
Todd, I really appreciate you
coming on and talking to
us about this framework. It's
fun. And I hope people
do check it out. And
certainly, you know, we're not
an Island, but people check
it out and the things
they like, things they hate,
they can always email me
and I'm free to give
out my email address, teller.com.
And I'd love to hear
the feedback and we're here
to Very cool. This has
been another episode of Hansel
minutes, and we'll see you
again next week.